While it's important that we care for our own spirituality and that of our family, our ministry revolves heavily around helping other people.
For a few minutes, I'd like to address the theme, helping people of all language groups.
Do you feel the urgency of the times in which we are now living?
What a privilege we have to be serving God in these last days.
At a time when Jehovah is speeding up the kingdom preaching work,
we are seeing the fulfillment of the words recorded in Isaiah, chapter 60, verse 22.
Let's read that scripture together, Isaiah, chapter 60, and verse 22.
There, Jehovah tells us,
the little one will become a thousand,
and the small one are mighty nation.
I myself Jehovah will speed it up in its own time.
No matter where we look in the earthly part of Jehovah's organization,
we see the things are progressing at an amazing rate.
The preaching work is penetrating more places.
The Theocratic schools are helping thousands,
and the construction work Earthwide is growing.
There are so many exciting developments that we could discuss.
But I'd like to discuss with you something that's very close to my heart.
It's another aspect of our work that has seen some amazing increases,
namely the translation work that has been accomplished by Jehovah's people.
Just a few decades ago,
we were producing Bible literature in a little over 200 languages.
But that figure has now risen to well over 700 languages,
and the number continues to increase every week.
Why, just last service year alone,
approval was given to start translating into 88 new languages.
Even more amazing is the fact that some 700 languages
are available on our JW.org website,
either as a site language or as publications that can be downloaded free of charge.
But why is it necessary to do all this translation work?
Is it so that we can become known as the organization that produces literature
in the most number of languages?
No. We aren't engaged in an academic exercise or some competition.
Rather, we desire to work in harmony with Jehovah's will.
And what is Jehovah's will concerning this matter?
The answer to that question is found in the inspired words of the Apostle Paul,
as recorded in 1 Timothy, chapter 2, and verses 3 and 4.
That's 1 Timothy, chapter 2, verses 3 and 4.
This is fine and acceptable in the sight of our Savior, God,
whose will is that all sorts of people should be saved
and come to an accurate knowledge of truth.
The fact is that all sorts of people speak all sorts of languages,
clearly than Jehovah wants everyone to hear the kind of message in their own language
so that they can be saved and come to an accurate knowledge of truth.
To illustrate what is involved in accomplishing this work,
imagine this scenario.
You are assigned to preach in an area where people speak a language
that doesn't have any literature at all.
Perhaps you've tried to learn that language and you start preaching to them
before long many show an interest in the truth.
But how can you study with them as they have no literature in their language?
Well, they may have a Bible in their language,
so you might be able to teach them by just using that Bible.
But could they prepare ahead of time for the study
and how could they do personal Bible study?
Eventually, they start coming to the meetings.
But what songs can they sing?
What material could they discuss and how could they prepare for the meetings?
If they don't understand basic Bible truths, how could they prepare for baptism?
It wouldn't take long for you to realize that these people need literature in their own language.
It's not enough for them to attend meetings held in a language they don't understand.
Regarding Christian meetings, the Apostle Paul wrote the words recorded in 1 Corinthians 14 and verse 9.
1 Corinthians 14 verse 9.
In the same way, unless you with the tongue use speech that is easily understood,
how will anyone know what is being said?
You will, in fact, be speaking into the air.
Well, none of us want to do that.
That's why the governing body continues to approve the translation of our literature into more and more languages,
so as to fill the spiritual needs of those who speak these languages
and to help them to come to an accurate knowledge of the truth.
It's true that many of those who speak these languages already know another more common language,
to be able to converse with others.
So why go to all the trouble of translating the Bible's message into these less common languages?
It's because we try to reach these persons in the language of their heart.
To have a God Himself set the example by what He did on the day of Pentecost in the year 33CE.
You might remember that He miraculously enabled the crowds of visitors there in Jerusalem to hear the message
not just in the major languages they may have known, but also in their own native languages
or the languages of their birth.
This reminds me of an experience I heard while visiting some islands in the South Pacific.
The brothers there told me about a man who had learned the truth in a language that was not his own native tongue.
But recently he had had an opportunity to hear the truth in his own language, the language of his birth.
What was his reaction?
He said, before I could only smell the spiritual food, but now I can really taste it and enjoy it.
How it strengthens our faith to know that our loving Heavenly Father desires that all sorts of persons
have an opportunity to hear the truth about Him.
And what a privilege we have to be associated with an organization that is helping people of all language groups
large and small to do exactly that.